---
title: "U.S. Legislative Enabled Violence: Tacoma Method and Present Day ICE"
layout: single
collection: portfolio
categories:
  - Projects
tags:
  - Chinese American History
  - AAPI Heritage Month
  - Adobe Photoshop
header:
  image: /assets/images/tacoma_proj.png
toc: true
toc_label: "On This Page"



---
## Introduction
Detained with violent force and displaced. Sounds familiar? In the 19th century, Sinophobia surged across the United States. Initially welcomed as cheap labor for jobs that white settlers refused, Chinese immigrants soon became scapegoats when jobs became scarce.[^1] In 1882, this culminated in the Chinese Exclusion Act, the first and only major U.S. federal law to explicitly ban immigration for a specific race or nationality.[^2] But beyond legislation, less remembered are the brutal campaigns of erasure, such as the 1885 expulsion of Tacoma’s Chinese-American community. Though their stories and pleas were forgotten for over a century, they mirror the struggles of Hispanic, Latino and Brown people in American society today.

## Dehumanization of Chinese in Tacoma, Washington
While white settlers viewed Chinese people as inferior, the Chinese Exclusion Act institutionalized their bigotry. Through banning Chinese immigration, it reinforced the message that they do not belong here. Nowhere was this more evident than in Tacoma, Washington, in 1885.

Led by Mayor Jacob Weisbach, the city hosted repeated meetings to "consider the Chinese question." The question in mind being their explusion from Tacoma.[^3] Weisbach and other white Tacomans saw the Chinese community not as neighbors, but as threats. In one speech, he declared: “If the [white] people are in earnest, if they are Free Americans in fact, they will not yield up their homes and business to the filthy [Chinese] horde.”[^4]

The so-called "Anti-Chinese Congress" settled on a violent solution: On November 1st, they would act.[^5] Though delayed by two days, their brutality arrived on November 3rd, when a mob of 500 armed white men—brandishing pistols and clubs—descended upon Tacoma’s Chinese residents with violent intent.[^6]


## Notes
[^1]: Terrell, Ellen. “Chinese Americans and the Gold Rush: Inside Adams.” The Library of Congress, 28 Jan. 2021, blogs.loc.gov/inside_adams/2021/01/chinese-americans-gold-rush/. 
[^2]: “Chinese Exclusion Act.” Encyclopædia Britannica, Encyclopædia Britannica, inc., 23 Mar. 2025, www.britannica.com/topic/Chinese-Exclusion-Act. 
[^3]: The Chinese Must Go - Mayor Weisbach. Https://Commons.Wikimedia.Org/Wiki/File:The_Chinese_Must_Go_-_Mayor_Weisbach_poster.Jpg. Accessed 26 Apr. 2025. 
[^4]: Morgan, Murray. “‘The Chinese Must Go.’” Puget’s Sound : A Narrative of Early Tacoma and the Southern Sound, University of Washington Press,  Seattle, Washington, 1979, pp. 223. 
[^5]: “Expulsion.” The Tacoma Method, www.tacomamethod.com/expulsion. Accessed 26 Apr. 2025. 
[^6]: Pfaelzer, Jean. “THE CHINESE REWRITE THE LETTER OF THE LAW.” Driven Out: The Forgotten War against Chinese Americans, University of California Press, Oakland, California, 2008, p. 219. 
